# 23.09.26 (Tue)

## study
- **wsl development environment**  
The other day, I got to know `WSL`(window Subsystem for Linux). it enable to use Linux in Windows.  
I want to change Windows development environment into Linux one.  
I decorate `zsh` terminal using `oh-my-zsh`.  

    in the meantime, I learn  
    - **Linux directory**  
        / = root  
        / -> home/, usr/, bin/ ...  
        home/<user_name> = ~

    - **vim**  
        it is charity ware, helping uganda chilren (I read vim info)  
        put ctrl+z => go out vim for a moment, 'fg' to return   

    - **PATH**   
        path is default directory. when input&run command, terminal searching command in 'PATH' priorly.  
        ex) 'ls', 'cd' is in 'bin/', and 'bin/' is in `PATH`, we use 'cd' without accurate directory

---

# 23.09.27 (Wed)  

## Bible
- **Faith of Daniel** (Daniel 1~7)
  
  > But Daniel **resolved not to defile himself** with the royal food and wine,  
  and he asked the chief official for permission not to defile himself this way (Dan 1:8)

  > If we are thrown into the blazing furnace,  
  the God we serve is able to save us from it, and he will rescue us from your hand, O king.  
  **But even if he does not**, we want you to know, O king, 
  that **we will not serve your gods** or worship the image of gold you have set up (Dan 3:17-18)  

  > Now **when Daniel learned that the decree** had ben published, 
  he went home to his upstairs room where the windows opened toward Jerusalem. 
  Three times a day **he got down on his knees and prayed**, giving thanks to his God, just as he had done before (Dan 6:10)

---

# 23.09.29 (Fri)

## Study  
- **Linux**  
1. configurate `wsl` development environment.
(vs code extension setting, copy Windows workspace into Linux)  
2. learn `Linux commands` [Linux_cmds](../../../workspace_linux/Linux/linux_cmds.sh)  
3. learn `shell script` [shellscript_cmds](../../../workspace_linux/Linux/shellscript/shellscript_cmds.sh)  
4. `zsh-theme` code modify using shell script

---

# 23.09.30 (Sat)

## Study  
- **zsh-theme**
create my own prompt `leejuchan.zsh-theme`,  
learing **shell script** and analyzing **agnoster** theme.
    - %K{} ... %k : background color
    - %F{} ... %f : foreground color
    - %{ ... %} : transfer str to escapes
    - ${PWD/$HOME/"~"} : current dir (replace $HOME into ~)

- **R programming**  
write exam-code in `ch03_data_structure` and `ch04_practice`

---